# ASMLCodingQuestion
A PyCharm Project to solve the ASML coding question

## Problem Description

There is a multi-process program that concurrently writes logs into a single log file. 
For this program, each process will finish some tasks and each task will print letters to indicate the progress: 'a', 'b', 'c', 'd', 'e'.     
'a' is the start of the task and 'e' is the end of the task. 

The code to be writen, returns the number of processes used and will return a -1 if the logs are out of sequence or incomplete. 

Examples

Example 1:       
Input: logString = "abcdeabcde"      
Output: 1     
Explanation:   
This string can be generated by two processes with each of them taking one task or one process taking two tasks. 
The minimum number of processes is one. 

Example 2:  
Input: logString = "abacdebcde"     
Output: 2     
Explanation:     
This have to be 2 processes.   
The first process prints "ab.cde....".   
The second process prints "..a...bcde".   

Example 3:       
Input: logString = "abcdeabcce"     
Output: -1     
Explanation:     
The given logString is an invalid combination. 
The logString has to be in order.     
"abcde....." is for the first process (finished).     
".....abc.." is for the second process (restarted).       
"........c." is out of sequence. There is no process, which already finished "ab"     
".........e" is also out of sequence, missing the "abcd"

Example 4:   
Input: logString = "abcdeabcd"    
Output: -1   
Explanation:    
"abcde...." is a completed sequence    
".....abcd" is a sequence in order, yet incomplete (reuse of the same process).    








## Implementation hints

### List of Lists

Create a list of processors, where each processor has a list of steps. These steps can be 0 (not run) or 1 (ran).
{processor1, processor2, .. }
processor:
{'a':1, 'b':0, 'c':0, 'd':0, 'e':0}

### improvement 1
The processor list can be improved. Since the steps have to come in order, 
a place value can already indicate the state of the process. 
processor:     
{a} -> {b} -> {c} -> ..     

### improvement 2
Since the list of processors now becomes     
['d', 'c', 'a' ]     
you might as well us a string; The first character is processor 1, the second character is processor 2, ..

### improvement 3
You could use numbers for the processors or even bytes. 
Advantage: you do not need to rewrite the processor state, but just increment/decrement the value. 